Starting to put  <i>something</i> down.  I'm starting with the representation of a spike train.  Already there's some difficulty!  Here's what I'm confused about mostly:

I know where to store the data.  How/where do I store metadata?

I can imagine something like:


type spiketrain = { spike_times : float array }

(* Where did this spike train come from?
   Don't know, don't care.  It's known by the
   'owner' of this spiketrain *)

********** or **********

type spiketrain = { spike_times  : float array;
                    source_trode : tetrode_data }
type tetrode_data = { name : string; position: (float*float*float) }

(* Does this lead to many copies of tetrode_data, since there are
   mare spiketrains than tetrodes? (a single tetrode records multiple
   spiketrains *)
                    

********** or **********

type tetrode_dict = (string * tetrode_data) list
type spiketrain = { spike_times : float array;
                    tetrode_name: string }



I guess the third option seems reasonable.  But, I'm confused about whether this is the problem that hashconsing tries to solve?  Does hashconsing reduce the payload of each spiketrain, when several tetrode_data instances are structurally equal?  Or am I confused?


There is a similar problem with spike waveforms.  There are TONS of spike waveforms - one for every action potential in the spike train.

Does each spikewaveform need to carry metadata around?  Or can I trust some kind of waveforms collection to keep a single copy of that metadata, and trust that any use of the spike waveform has access to the collection?


Maybe that is the key question I have to answer for this design decision: will this bit of data ever 'escape' the confines of its collection AND have to find its way back to its metadata?  Or, will the user of this data ALWAYS have the collection and the metadata, if he/she needs it?  In the latter case, I don't think I need the upstream-payload at all.  Simply:

(* The minimal metadata case: assume that data users also
   have access to the upstream collections, and can use
   these to interpret the smaller-granularity parts. *)

type spikewaveform = float array array
(* One spike array for each electrode channel *)

type spike = { id : int; 
               time : float;
               data : spikewaveform
               wave_params : { amplitude: float list; spikewidth: int}  }

type spiketrain = { cluster_name : string;
                    spike_times : float array };

type recording_session { session_name : string;
                         spike_trains : (string * spiketrain) list }