Decided that my first experiment in ocaml for analysis will be fitting a pair of gaussian kernels over place cell's phase precession profile, a-la Yamaguchi Aota McNaughton and Lipa, J. Neurophys, 2002.

First step, get some data in to ocaml.  It's all stored in matlab structs - very poorly defined structs, in fact, made when I was first learning to use matlab, before I had much of an idea what any data structure should look like.

Decided that json may be a good way go get data between matlab and ocaml, since both have json parsers that seem good.  (I had some trouble before installing piqi, so protobufs are out.  And there doesn't seem to be any s-expression librory for matlab).

Won't describe installing the json toolbox in matlab (jsonlab); it was pretty easy for a matlabber.  The hard part is figuring out how to explore yojson in ocaml.

yojson was easy to install with opam!  Examples are sparse - Martin Jambon's example code in the github repo seemed not to work, or maybe I'm confused.  I can't find any function called filter_member anywhere in the library.

Now that I look at the github repo, I <i>do</i> see that function, and I see that the version is 1.1.3, while my opam installed version is 1.0.3.

I try:
git clone http://github.com/mjambon/yojson
opam pin yojson ./yojson
opam update  (and I see there is a new version of archimedes, yay!)
opam upgrade 

But this says: 'pinning to version of yojson - installing 1.0.3'.
Hm....

Dispite the confusing version message, the pinning seems to have worked!  I have to remember to unpin I guess, when the yojson repo linked to from opam moves forward.

And it looks like there is some pretty good info about the who ocaml json thing at mjambon.com/json-wheel.html  - I imagine the logic applies the same to yojson?

It was my first time having to use ocamlfind:

ocamlfind browser -package yojson

How about I try to write my first bit of code for this - represent the spiking of a single cell?

Meh.  I better read the ora chapter on modules first, right?  Have to say, it's pretty impressive how people are able to build things like these parsers.  I'm excited to try sexplib and bin_prot.  And json is exciting with all the 'd3' things going on.